---
title: '2021 Custom PC Build'
date: 2021-03-08
permalink: /posts/2021/03/pcbuild
tags:
  - Random
  - Projects
  - Tech DIY
---

## Contents
- Introduction
- Parts List
- Walkthrough
- Extra Photos


## Intro
During the pandemic, I finally decided to take the leap into the world of PC gaming. I've always loved console gaming, but was curious and decided it would be a fun project to build my own computer. This computer would work well to support my computational modeling and simulation efforts required for my graduate studies, and double as a gaming/cryptocurrency mining rig. 


I knew I didn't have much space on my desk, so it became clear that I needed as small of a build as possible without sacrificing cooling/ventilation performance. I eventually chose the ThermalTake Tower 100 Mini-ITX case. Its 18.2 x 10.5 x 10.5 inch dimensions fit my space nicely, and its verticality was just the right amount of flashiness for my taste. It's a great centerpiece for my custom built maple ambrosia wood desk. 



## Parts List
| Part | Name |
| --- | ----------- |
| Tower | ThermalTake Tower 100 |
| CPU | AMD Ryzen 5 3600 |
| CPU Cooling | NH-U12A (Radiator w/ 2x Noctua A12x25) |
| Motherboard | MSI B550I GAMING EDGE WIFI Mini ITX AMD |
| GPU | Nvidia GeForce RTX 3060 Ti |
| RAM | 8gb Corsair Pro Vengeance DDR4 RAM  |
| PSU | 650w Seagate Gold |

## Walkthrough
Since this was my first PC build, I went into the process rather blind. The choice to go with a Mini-ITX case made the build challenging, with lots of tight squeezes and cable connections to be made. 


I custom painted my Noctua A12x25 fans that came included with the NH-U12A cooler. Many Noctua fans would find this treasonous, but personally, I couldn't have the black and brown look inside my case. 

I also learned that the Noctua cooling unit I chose was benchmarked to function the same (or better, in some cases) if you removed one of the fans from the radiator. This actually was idea for me; despite being listed online as compatible, my mini-itx motherboard actually couldn't fit the CPU cooler onto it - he bottom fan was blocked by the RAM. I turned the bottom fan into a case fan, and have had no CPU cooling issues. 
