---
title: 'Human Systems Integration'
date: 2021-07-01
permalink: /posts/2021/07/HSI
tags:
  - Interdisciplinary
  - Coursework
  - Psychology
  - Cognitive Systems Engineering
---



In December 2020, I graduated with a Bachelor's of Science in Human Systems Integration (HSI), the first degree of its kind to ever be awarded from Ohio State University. As is true with many terms in the sphere of human factors and cognitive engineering, HSI is somewhat a loaded phrase. The intention of this discussion is to clarify the underlying philosophy of my brand of HSI, which varies from its traditional etymology. 


### Etymology
Human Systems Integration is borne from Department of Defense (DoD) systems engineering processes. The term is linked directly to the ability to mitigate risks associated with "the human factor" of systems. 

The US Army "uses [HSI] to make sure human factors such as capabilities and limitations are incorporated into all of the steps during the system acquisition process"


first coined in Army Systems Engineering work. 






Naval Postgraduate School's [Certificate in HSI](https://nps.edu/web/dl/cert_hsi), though their use of the term differs greatly in its focal point and underlying philosophy ([this comes to mind](https://features.propublica.org/navy-accidents/us-navy-crashes-japan-cause-mccain/), as well). The Navy's Human Systems Integration program was initially founded to increase the capabilities of autonomous machines, and holds significant philosophical baggage which ignores the complexities and interdependence associate with performing joint work.  [(Bradshaw et al., 2013)](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/260304859_The_Seven_Deadly_Myths_of_Autonomous_Systems)





## Philosophical Underpinnings of Human Systems Integration

Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------
